index.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

## Administrative information

Administrative course information is available [here](https://en.uit.no/utdanning/emner/emne?p_document_id=822456)

We use Canvas to share important information, make sure to check your email. 
For discussions/chat the course has its own Discord server, you will find and invitation link on Canvas.

The github organization for this course can be found [here](https://github.com/uit-inf-2201-s24)


**Staff**

* John Markus Bjørndalen <john.markus.bjorndalen@uit.no> (Course responsible, Lectures)
* Loïc Guégan (Lectures)
* Michael John Murphy <michael.j.murphy@uit.no> (Projects)
* Øyvind Arne Moen Nohr <oyvind.a.nohr@uit.no> (TA, group 1)
* Ilya Taksis (TA, group 2)
* Belal Medhat Mostafa AbdAlRheem <belal.m.abdalrheem@uit.no> (TA, group 3)
* Ragnhild Abel Grape (TA, group 4)
* Hoang Loc La (TA, group [1-4])

UiT Student administration: [TopDesk link from Canvas](https://uit.topdesk.net/tas/public/ssp/1550ac93-3cae-443d-a606-4ac1b2e5e6e1).

**Cheating**

As a student at UiT, you are obliged to familiarize yourself with the current rules that apply to the use of aids during exams, as well as rules for source use and citation. In the case of violation of these rules, you may be suspected of cheating, or attempt at cheating. Cheating on an exam is considered a violation of academic integrity. Academic integrity(honesty) is about being clear in relation to which thoughts/reflection and work are one's own, and which are taken from other's work. Cheating is punishable by cancellation of exams and/or exclusion from university.

You can read more about plagiarism and cheating [here](https://uit.no/sensor).

## Lecture plan

The room allocation and times are available [here](https://timeplan.uit.no/emne_timeplan.php?sem=24v&module[]=INF-2201-1#week-52). 

Below is the scheduled dates and topics for lectures and project hand-outs. Please note that: 

- The schedule is tentative and will probably be updated
- We may not be in the same room every day or week. Please check your calendar or the room allocation plan above for updated information.
- The numbers in front of the lectures: these correspond to "lecture numbers" as they were given previous years, but may be slightly out 
  of order this year as we are updating the course content. 


| W# | wdays       | Mon      | Tue                       | Wed            | Thu                                     | Fr              |
|---:|-------------|----------|---------------------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------|-----------------|
|  2 | 08.01-12.01 |          | 01 intro                  | P1 out         | 02 + 04 syscalls, processes, protection |                 |
|  3 | 15.01-19.01 |          | 05 threads, critsec       | P2 out         | 05 cont., 06 semaphores                 |                 |
|  4 | 22.01-26.01 |          | 03 os structure           |                | TBA                                     |                 |
|  5 | 29.01-02.02 |          | 07 monitors               |                | 08 preemptive                           |                 |
|  6 | 05.02-09.02 | P2 in    | *SAMEFOLKETS DAG*         | P3 out         |                                         |                 |
|  7 | 12.02-16.02 |          | 09 deadlocks              |                | No lecture (TEKdagen)                   |                 |
|  8 | 19.02-23.02 |          | 10 cpu scheduling         |                | 11 msgpassing                           |                 |
|  9 | 26.02-01.03 | P3 in    | 12 io devices and drivers | P4 out         |                                         |                 |
| 10 | 04.03-08.03 |          | 13 addr-trans paging      |                |                                         |                 |
| 11 | 11.03-15.03 |          | 14 paging and vm design   |                |                                         |                 |
| 12 | 18.03-22.03 | P4 in    | 14 paging .. #2           |                |                                         |                 |
| 13 |             |          | *EASTER*                  | *EASTER*       | *EASTER*                                |                 |
| 14 | 01.04-05.04 |          |                           | P5 out         |                                         |                 |
| 15 | 08.04-12.04 |          | 15 storage systems        |                |                                         |                 |
| 16 | 15.04-19.04 |          | 16 file systems           |                |                                         |                 |
| 17 | 22.04-26.04 | P5 in    | 16 file syst #2           | P6. (optional) |                                         |                 |
| 18 | 29.04-03.05 |          |                           | *RED DAY*      |                                         |                 |
| 19 | 06.05-10.05 |          | 17 security               |                | *RED DAY*                               |                 |
| 20 | 13.05-17.05 |          | 18 exam prep              |                |                                         |                 |
| 21 | 20.05-24.05 | =>lists? |                           |                |                                         |                 |
| 22 | 27.05-31.05 |          |                           |                |                                         |                 |
| 23 | 03.06-07-06 | exam?    |                           |                |                                         |                 |
| 24 | 10.06-14-06 |          |                           |                |                                         | End of semester |
|    |             |          |                           |                |                                         |                 |

## Readings

1. Andrew Tanenbaum, Herbert Bos, Modern Operating Systems Fifth Edition, Global Edition.
2. Lecture notes
3. Mandatory assignments

## Mandatory assignments

| Project | Start | Due   | Subject           | Lecturer |
|---------|-------|-------|-------------------|----------|
| P2      | 17.01 | 05.02 | Cooperative scheduling, locks | MM       |
| P3      | 07.02 | 26.02 | Preemption, syscalls and dining philosophers | MM       |
| P4      | 28.02 | 01.04 | IPC, memory | MM       |
| P5      | 03.04 | 22.04 | Virtual Memory| MM       |

## Exercises

| Project | Start | Due | Subject           | Lecturer |
|---------|-------|-----|-------------------|----------|
| P1      | 11.01 |     | Booting | MM     |
| P6      | 24.04 |     | File system | MM       |

Commit message:

added link to the alternative when timeplan.uit.no is down

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

## Administrative information

Administrative course information is available [here](https://en.uit.no/utdanning/emner/emne?p_document_id=822456)

We use Canvas to share important information, make sure to check your email. 
For discussions/chat the course has its own Discord server, you will find and invitation link on Canvas.

The github organization for this course can be found [here](https://github.com/uit-inf-2201-s24)


**Staff**

* John Markus Bjørndalen <john.markus.bjorndalen@uit.no> (Course responsible, Lectures)
* Loïc Guégan (Lectures)
* Michael John Murphy <michael.j.murphy@uit.no> (Projects)
* Øyvind Arne Moen Nohr <oyvind.a.nohr@uit.no> (TA, group 1)
* Ilya Taksis (TA, group 2)
* Belal Medhat Mostafa AbdAlRheem <belal.m.abdalrheem@uit.no> (TA, group 3)
* Ragnhild Abel Grape (TA, group 4)
* Hoang Loc La (TA, group [1-4])

UiT Student administration: [TopDesk link from Canvas](https://uit.topdesk.net/tas/public/ssp/1550ac93-3cae-443d-a606-4ac1b2e5e6e1).

**Cheating**

As a student at UiT, you are obliged to familiarize yourself with the current rules that apply to the use of aids during exams, as well as rules for source use and citation. In the case of violation of these rules, you may be suspected of cheating, or attempt at cheating. Cheating on an exam is considered a violation of academic integrity. Academic integrity(honesty) is about being clear in relation to which thoughts/reflection and work are one's own, and which are taken from other's work. Cheating is punishable by cancellation of exams and/or exclusion from university.

You can read more about plagiarism and cheating [here](https://uit.no/sensor).

## Lecture plan

Room allocation: 
- The room allocation and times are available [here](https://timeplan.uit.no/emne_timeplan.php?sem=24v&module[]=INF-2201-1#week-52). 
- If timeplan.uit.no is down (again), please look [here](https://tp.educloud.no/uit/timeplan/timeplan.php?id%5B%5D=INF-2201%2C1&type=course&sem=24v&campus=)

Below is the scheduled dates and topics for lectures and project hand-outs. Please note that: 

- The schedule is tentative and will probably be updated
- We may not be in the same room every day or week. Please check your calendar or the room allocation plan above for updated information.
- The numbers in front of the lectures: these correspond to "lecture numbers" as they were given previous years, but may be slightly out 
  of order this year as we are updating the course content. 


| W# | wdays       | Mon      | Tue                       | Wed            | Thu                                     | Fr              |
|---:|-------------|----------|---------------------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------|-----------------|
|  2 | 08.01-12.01 |          | 01 intro                  | P1 out         | 02 + 04 syscalls, processes, protection |                 |
|  3 | 15.01-19.01 |          | 05 threads, critsec       | P2 out         | 05 cont., 06 semaphores                 |                 |
|  4 | 22.01-26.01 |          | 03 os structure           |                | TBA                                     |                 |
|  5 | 29.01-02.02 |          | 07 monitors               |                | 08 preemptive                           |                 |
|  6 | 05.02-09.02 | P2 in    | *SAMEFOLKETS DAG*         | P3 out         |                                         |                 |
|  7 | 12.02-16.02 |          | 09 deadlocks              |                | No lecture (TEKdagen)                   |                 |
|  8 | 19.02-23.02 |          | 10 cpu scheduling         |                | 11 msgpassing                           |                 |
|  9 | 26.02-01.03 | P3 in    | 12 io devices and drivers | P4 out         |                                         |                 |
| 10 | 04.03-08.03 |          | 13 addr-trans paging      |                |                                         |                 |
| 11 | 11.03-15.03 |          | 14 paging and vm design   |                |                                         |                 |
| 12 | 18.03-22.03 | P4 in    | 14 paging .. #2           |                |                                         |                 |
| 13 |             |          | *EASTER*                  | *EASTER*       | *EASTER*                                |                 |
| 14 | 01.04-05.04 |          |                           | P5 out         |                                         |                 |
| 15 | 08.04-12.04 |          | 15 storage systems        |                |                                         |                 |
| 16 | 15.04-19.04 |          | 16 file systems           |                |                                         |                 |
| 17 | 22.04-26.04 | P5 in    | 16 file syst #2           | P6. (optional) |                                         |                 |
| 18 | 29.04-03.05 |          |                           | *RED DAY*      |                                         |                 |
| 19 | 06.05-10.05 |          | 17 security               |                | *RED DAY*                               |                 |
| 20 | 13.05-17.05 |          | 18 exam prep              |                |                                         |                 |
| 21 | 20.05-24.05 | =>lists? |                           |                |                                         |                 |
| 22 | 27.05-31.05 |          |                           |                |                                         |                 |
| 23 | 03.06-07-06 | exam?    |                           |                |                                         |                 |
| 24 | 10.06-14-06 |          |                           |                |                                         | End of semester |
|    |             |          |                           |                |                                         |                 |

## Readings

1. Andrew Tanenbaum, Herbert Bos, Modern Operating Systems Fifth Edition, Global Edition.
2. Lecture notes
3. Mandatory assignments

## Mandatory assignments

| Project | Start | Due   | Subject           | Lecturer |
|---------|-------|-------|-------------------|----------|
| P2      | 17.01 | 05.02 | Cooperative scheduling, locks | MM       |
| P3      | 07.02 | 26.02 | Preemption, syscalls and dining philosophers | MM       |
| P4      | 28.02 | 01.04 | IPC, memory | MM       |
| P5      | 03.04 | 22.04 | Virtual Memory| MM       |

## Exercises

| Project | Start | Due | Subject           | Lecturer |
|---------|-------|-----|-------------------|----------|
| P1      | 11.01 |     | Booting | MM     |
| P6      | 24.04 |     | File system | MM       |
